# ANAPtracker
A Normal AP Tracker.

This project is a fancier version of the Mutiworld Archipelago tracker (available here : [https://archipelago.gg/](https://archipelago.gg/) ).
The idea is to get specific data based on games, while keeping a minimalistic point of view.

The project uses Vue.js, mainly because it's my go-to frawemork when I want to do a small webapp.
It also has a Laravel API on the back to make things clean. The API is on a separate project (because it's my personnal website), but it's behavior is the same as the Archipelago WebHost API (and it has a storage static calls mechanism, in order to not spam the website with useless requests)


## How to use it : 
Copy paste the Archipelago room URL (or the room ID) on the main page input, and there you go !

What you'll be able to see or to do :
- Basic numbers on the list of players, such a checks done, % completion, also total completion numbers.
- Key items, depending if the game is actually supported by the tracker or not.
- Sorting and filtering data.


## Which games are supported ?
At the moment, a good chunk of very common games, such as Hollow Knight, Celeste, Pokemon games and some Zelda games. It also has some niche games that I enjoy to play (because I wanted a tracker on them first).

The game list is available on the Homepage. It loads the supported game list from the sources.

I do my best to add new games, and try to prioritize thoses who are popular at the moment.


## Can i deploy the app on my side ?

Not yet ! You can, but you'll have to tweak a few things to make it fully usable.
Because the webapp is making API calls, you'll either have to enable CORS on your browser, or make a bridge API on your side.
If you're not familiar with building backend stuff, just enable CORS (using a browser extension).

Also, the app is one of my subwebsites, so it's supposed to run on a subdirectory (which should not be the case nowadays). 
You'll have to remove that line from `vite.config.js` :
`base: '/anaptracker',`

Then set the URL_WEBSITE from `src/hconfig.js` to localhost :
`URL_WEBSITE: 'http://localhost:5173',`

FInally, run the application by using npm (`npm run dev`).

Images are not yet on the repository, because I want to give credit to the cool artists who made them.


# App mechanics

## Call Order

Because we are making severals call to gather all of the multiworld data, we set a call order :
1. **Room Data** (`get_ap_room/ROOM_ID`). This call has the Tracker ID on it's result. We need that ID in order to make the next calls.
2. **Static Tracker Data** (`get_static_tracker_data/TRACKER_ID`). Has static tracker information related to the multiworld (totals checks). It also have Datapackages IDs which are the ID of the played game's datapackages.
3. **Slot Data** (`get_slot_data/TRACKER_ID`). Has the information for every game slot played (settings, goal, some randomized stuff related to the game). That info is generated by the AP world. We have different data qualities between APworlds, from all options grabbed from the yaml, to absolutely nothing.
4. **Datapackages calls** (`get_datapackage/DATAPACKAGE_ID`). Thoses are called on a separate thread, because it can be a long list of games to gather (not to mention we only call supported games). A datapackage contains the list off every check of an AP world, and also a list of every item. (nothing is filtered, we get absolutely everything no matter the settings) 
5. **Tracker Data** (`get_tracker_data/TRACKER_ID`). Every 10 seconds, we refresh the tracker by making this call. It has :
	- Items sents
	- Locations checked
	- Hints
	- Players status

The 4 first calls are treated as static calls : those are stored on the bridge API, in order to not put stress on the Webhost. Stored calls last 7 days.
Room data should not be treated as a static call, because it has the port number (which might change). But because we are not using the port number atm, we are storing the call anyways.


The 5th call should never be stored. The only exception is when a big number of players is using the app at the same time, which will result of a 429 error from the Webhost.

## Data Structure
- Players
	- Tracker Data
		- Items recieved
		- Locations done
		- Activity Timer
		- Status
	- Static Data (not used atm)
	- Slot Data
	- Name
	- Alias
	- Game
	- ID
	- Total locations 
	- Group
- Datapackage
- Groups
- Total checks done
- Broken Slot Data indicator